[memgraph-2.12 < E-add-refactor] (#288)
memgraph/documentation: pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/refactor.mdx

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/refactor/rel_after.png)

### `normalize_as_boolean()`

> Normalizes properties to true or false depending whether the property value is contained in `true_values` or `false_values`. If the property value is not contained in either list the property is removed. Throws an exception if both lists contain the same value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normalizes properties to `true` or `false` depending on whether the property value is contained in `true_values` or `false_values`. If the property value is not contained in either list, the property is removed. Throws an exception if both lists contain the same value.
```

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

> - `entity: Node|Relationship` ➡  Node or relationship whose property value will be normalized.
> - `property_key: string` ➡  Key of the property to be normalized.
> - `true_values: List[Any]` ➡  List of property values which will be normalized to true.
> - `false_values: List[Any]` ➡  List of property values which will be normalized to false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `entity: Node|Relationship` ➡  The node or relationship on which the property value will be normalized.
- `property_key: string` ➡  The key of the property to be normalized.
- `true_values: List[Any]` ➡  A list of property values that will be normalized to `true`.
- `false_values: List[Any]` ➡  A list of property values that will be normalized to `false`.
```

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Create a graph using the queries below:

```cypher

> CREATE (n1:Node1 {property: "YES"}) CREATE (n2:Node2 {property: "NO"}) CREATE (n3:Node3 {property: "MAYBE", exists:true}) CREATE (n4:Node4) CREATE (n5:Node5 {exists:false}) CREATE (n1)-[:Rel1 {property:"YES"}]->(n2) CREATE (n2)-[:Rel2 {property:"NO"}]->(n3) CREATE (n3)-[:Rel3]->(n4) CREATE (n4)-[:Rel4 {property:"MAYBE", exists:"YES"}]->(n5);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE (n1:Node1 {property: "YES"})
CREATE (n2:Node2 {property: "NO"})
CREATE (n3:Node3 {property: "MAYBE", exists:true})
CREATE (n4:Node4)
CREATE (n5:Node5 {exists:false})
CREATE (n1)-[:Rel1 {property:"YES"}]->(n2)
CREATE (n2)-[:Rel2 {property:"NO"}]->(n3)
CREATE (n3)-[:Rel3]->(n4)
CREATE (n4)-[:Rel4 {property:"MAYBE", exists:"YES"}]->(n5);
```

> CREATE (n1:Node1 {property: "YES"}) CREATE (n2:Node2 {property: "NO"}) CREATE (n3:Node3 {property: "MAYBE", exists:true}) CREATE (n4:Node4) CREATE (n5:Node5 {exists:false}) CREATE (n1)-[:Rel1 {property:"YES"}]->(n2) CREATE (n2)-[:Rel2 {property:"NO"}]->(n3) CREATE (n3)-[:Rel3]->(n4) CREATE (n4)-[:Rel4 {property:"MAYBE", exists:"YES"}]->(n5);
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE (n1:Node1 {property: "YES"})
CREATE (n2:Node2 {property: "NO"})
CREATE (n3:Node3 {property: "MAYBE", exists:true})
CREATE (n4:Node4)
CREATE (n5:Node5 {exists:false})
CREATE (n1)-[:Rel1 {property:"YES"}]->(n2)
CREATE (n2)-[:Rel2 {property:"NO"}]->(n3)
CREATE (n3)-[:Rel3]->(n4)
CREATE (n4)-[:Rel4 {property:"MAYBE", exists:"YES"}]->(n5);
```
```

> The following query will change every property called `property` to true if it is equal to `YES` and false if it is equal to `NO`, otherwise it will delete the property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query will set  every property called `property` to `true` if it is equal to `YES`, and to `false` if it is equal to `NO`, otherwise it will delete the property:
```

```cypher

> MATCH (n) WITH collect(n) AS nodes CALL refactor.normalize_as_boolean(nodes, 'property', ['YES'], ['NO']);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MATCH (n)
WITH collect(n) AS nodes
CALL refactor.normalize_as_boolean(nodes, 'property', ['YES'], ['NO']);
```

```

### `extract_node()`

> Creates a node from the given relationship (and deletes the relationship) with the given labels and connects the new node to the start and end node of the given relationship with the given types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure creates a node from the given relationship (and deletes the relationship) with the given labels and connects the new node to the start and end node of the given relationship with the given types.
```

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

> - `relationships: Relationship|int|List[Relationship|int]` ➡  Relationships to be changed given by their id, themselves, or a list of any of those two.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `relationships: Relationship|int|List[Relationship|int]` ➡  Relationships to be changed into a node defined by their ID, themselves, or a list of any of those two.
```

> - `labels: List[string]` ➡  List of labels of the newly created node.
> - `outType: String` ➡  Type of the outgoing relationship from the newly created node.
> - `inType: String` ➡  Type of the incoming relationship from the newly created node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `labels: List[string]` ➡  A list of labels that should assigned to the newly created node.
- `outType: String` ➡  The type of the outgoing relationship from the newly created node.
- `inType: String` ➡  The type of the incoming relationship to the newly created node.
```

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

> - `input: integer` ➡ Id of the given deleted relationship.
> - `output: Node` ➡ The newly created node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `input: integer` ➡ The ID of the provided, now deleted relationship.
- `output: Node` ➡ The newly created node.
```

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

Create a graph using the query below:

```cypher

> CREATE (Node1:Label {name: 'Node1'}) CREATE (Node2:Label {name: 'Node2'}) CREATE (Node3:Label {name: 'Node3'}) CREATE (Node4:Label {name: 'Node4'}) CREATE (Node5:Label {name: 'Node5'}) CREATE (Node1)-[:Rel1]->(Node2) CREATE (Node2)-[:Rel2]->(Node3) CREATE (Node3)-[:Rel3]->(Node4) CREATE (Node4)-[:Rel4]->(Node5);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CREATE (Node1:Label {name: 'Node1'})
CREATE (Node2:Label {name: 'Node2'})
CREATE (Node3:Label {name: 'Node3'})
CREATE (Node4:Label {name: 'Node4'})
CREATE (Node5:Label {name: 'Node5'})
CREATE (Node1)-[:Rel1]->(Node2)
CREATE (Node2)-[:Rel2]->(Node3)
CREATE (Node3)-[:Rel3]->(Node4)
CREATE (Node4)-[:Rel4]->(Node5);
```

```

> After running the query below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query will delete all the relationships in the graph, create them as nodes with the label `NewLabel` and connect them to the nodes they connected as a relationship.
```

```cypher

> MATCH ()-[rel]->() CALL refactor.extract_node(rel, ["NewLabel"], "OutRelationship", "InRelationship") YIELD output RETURN output;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MATCH ()-[rel]->()
CALL refactor.extract_node(rel, ["NewLabel"], "OutRelationship", "InRelationship")
YIELD output
RETURN output;
```

```

> The graph will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The new state of the graph:

```

![](/pages/advanced-algorithms/available-algorithms/refactor/extract_node_after.png)

### `delete_and_reconnect()`

> Deletes the given nodes from the given path (deleting them in the graph) and reconnects the remaining nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure deletes the given nodes from the given path (deleting them in the graph) and reconnects the remaining nodes.
```

{<h4> Input: </h4>}

> - `path: Path` ➡  The given path.
> - `nodes: List[Node]` ➡ List of nodes to be deleted.
> - `config: Map` ➡ Config for reconnecting nodes.
>                     - relationshipSelectionStrategy: string = "incoming"
>                           - "incoming" - relationship will the smaller index in the path will be used for reconnection.
>                           - "outgoing" - the relationship with the bigger index in the path will be used for reconnection.
>                           - "merge" - the relationships will be merged, relationship type will be changed to "type2_type1" where type1 is the type of the relationship with the smaller index in the path. If both relationships have the same property the property in the reconnected relationship will be decided by `properties` in the config.
>                     - properties: string = "combine"
>                           - "discard" - property of the relationship with the smaller index in the path wins.
>                           - "overwrite" / "override" - property of the relationship with the bigger index in the path wins.
>                           - "combine" - merges properties by creating a list in which both property values are contained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `path: Path` ➡  The given path.
- `nodes: List[Node]` ➡ A list of nodes to be deleted.
- `config: Map` ➡ Config for reconnecting nodes.
                           - `relationshipSelectionStrategy: string`, default = `"incoming"`
                                 - "incoming" - relationship with the smaller index in the path will be used for reconnection.
                                 - "outgoing" - the relationship with the bigger index in the path will be used for reconnection.
                                 - "merge" - the relationships will be merged, and the relationship type will be changed to "type2_type1" where type1 is the type of the relationship with the smaller index in the path. If both relationships have the same property the property in the reconnected relationship will be decided by `properties` in the config.
                    - `properties: string`, default = `"combine"`
                          - "discard" - property of the relationship with the smaller index in the path wins.
                          - "overwrite" / "override" - property of the relationship with the bigger index in the path wins.
                          - "combine" - merges properties by creating a list in which both property values are contained.
```

{<h4> Output: </h4>}

- `nodes: List[Node]` ➡ Nodes which were not deleted from the graph.
- `relationships: List[Relationship]` ➡ Relationships which were not deleted from the graph.

{<h4> Usage: </h4>}

> All the examples will be run on the following graph:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the usage examples show how the procedure operates using the following graph:
```

```cypher
CREATE (n1:Node {name: "Node 1"})-[:Rel1 {name: "Rel1"}]->(n2:Node {name: "Node 2"})-[:Rel2 {name: "Rel2"}]->(n3:Node {name: "Node 3"})-[:Rel3 {name: "Rel3"}]->(n4:Node {name: "Node 4"})-[:Rel4 {name: "Rel4"}]->(n5:Node {name: "Node 5"});
```

> Query (incoming):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the relationships with the smaller index in the path to reconnect the nodes:
```

```cypher
MATCH p=(a:Node)-->(b:Node)-->(c:Node)-->(d:Node)-->(e:Node)

> WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'incoming'}) YIELD nodes, relationships RETURN nodes, relationships;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'incoming'})
YIELD nodes, relationships
RETURN nodes, relationships;
```

```

> Result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Result:

```

```plaintext
nodes: [{"id": 5, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 1"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 7, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 3"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 9, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 5"}, "type": "node"}]
relationships: [{"id": 4, "start": 5, "end": 7, "label": "Rel1", "properties": {"name": "Rel1"}, "type": "relationship"}, {"id": 6, "start": 7, "end": 9, "label": "Rel3", "properties": {"name": "Rel3"}, "type": "relationship"}]
```

> Query (outgoing):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the relationships with the bigger index in the path to reconnect the nodes:

```

```cypher
MATCH p=(a:Node)-->(b:Node)-->(c:Node)-->(d:Node)-->(e:Node)

> WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'outgoing'}) YIELD nodes, relationships RETURN nodes, relationships;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'outgoing'})
YIELD nodes, relationships
RETURN nodes, relationships;
```

```

Result:
```plaintext
nodes: [{"id": 15, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 1"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 17, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 3"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 19, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 5"}, "type": "node"}]
relationships: [{"id": 13, "start": 15, "end": 17, "label": "Rel2", "properties": {"name": "Rel2"}, "type": "relationship"}, {"id": 15, "start": 17, "end": 19, "label": "Rel4", "properties": {"name": "Rel4"}, "type": "relationship"}]
```

> Query (merge + discard):

Reviewer: Can you please help me... Can you write what exactly will happen in this version of the query... so not just the merge+ discard, but do you see how i wrote what will actually happen? so C/P and merging the config properties into a sentence

```cypher
MATCH p=(a:Node)-->(b:Node)-->(c:Node)-->(d:Node)-->(e:Node)

> WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'merge', properties: 'discard'}) YIELD nodes, relationships RETURN nodes, relationships;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'merge', properties: 'discard'})
YIELD nodes, relationships
RETURN nodes, relationships;
```

```

Result:
```plaintext
nodes: [{"id": 20, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 1"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 22, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 3"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 24, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 5"}, "type": "node"}]
relationships: [{"id": 16, "start": 20, "end": 22, "label": "Rel2_Rel1", "properties": {"name": "Rel1"}, "type": "relationship"}, {"id": 18, "start": 22, "end": 24, "label": "Rel4_Rel3", "properties": {"name": "Rel3"}, "type": "relationship"}]
```

Query (merge + override):
```cypher
MATCH p=(a:Node)-->(b:Node)-->(c:Node)-->(d:Node)-->(e:Node)

> WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'merge', properties: 'override'}) YIELD nodes, relationships RETURN nodes, relationships;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'merge', properties: 'override'})
YIELD nodes, relationships
RETURN nodes, relationships;
```

```

Result:
```plaintext
nodes: [{"id": 25, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 1"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 27, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 3"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 29, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 5"}, "type": "node"}]
relationships: [{"id": 21, "start": 25, "end": 27, "label": "Rel2_Rel1", "properties": {"name": "Rel2"}, "type": "relationship"}, {"id": 23, "start": 27, "end": 29, "label": "Rel4_Rel3", "properties": {"name": "Rel4"}, "type": "relationship"}]
```

Query (merge + combine):
```cypher
MATCH p=(a:Node)-->(b:Node)-->(c:Node)-->(d:Node)-->(e:Node)

> WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'merge', properties: 'combine'}) YIELD nodes, relationships RETURN nodes, relationships;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WITH p, [b,d] as l CALL refactor.delete_and_reconnect(p, l, {relationshipSelectionStrategy: 'merge', properties: 'combine'})
YIELD nodes, relationships
RETURN nodes, relationships;
```

```

Result:
```plaintext
nodes: [{"id": 35, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 1"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 37, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 3"}, "type": "node"}, {"id": 39, "labels": ["Node"], "properties": {"name": "Node 5"}, "type": "node"}]
relationships: [{"id": 28, "start": 35, "end": 37, "label": "Rel2_Rel1", "properties": {"name": ["Rel1", "Rel2"]}, "type": "relationship"}, {"id": 30, "start": 37, "end": 39, "label": "Rel4_Rel3", "properties": {"name": ["Rel3", "Rel4"]}, "type": "relationship"}]
```

### `rename_type()`

> Changes the relationship type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure changes the relationship type.
```
